#python readme file

What is Git?
Git is an open-source distributed version control system. It is designed to handle minor to major projects with high speed and efficiency. It is developed to co-ordinate the work among the developers. The version control allows us to track and work together with our team members at the same workspace.

What Is GitHub? 
GitHub is a for-profit company that offers a cloud-based Git repository hosting service. Essentially, it makes it a lot easier for individuals and teams to use Git for version control and collaboration. GitHub’s interface is user-friendly enough so even novice coders can take advantage of Git. Without GitHub, using Git generally requires a bit more technical savvy and use of the command line.

What Is Version Control? 
Version control helps developers track and manage changes to a software project’s code. As a software project grows, version control becomes essential. Take WordPress… At this point, WordPress is a pretty big project. If a core developer wanted to work on one specific part of the WordPress codebase, it wouldn’t be safe or efficient to have them directly edit the “official” source code. Instead, version control lets developers safely work through branching and merging.

Repository:

 A repository contains all of your project's files and each file's revision history. You can discuss and manage your project's work within the repository. When you create a repository, you can choose to make the repository public or private. Repositories in organizations that use GitHub Enterprise Cloud and are owned by an enterprise account can also be created with internal visibility.

How are softwares are using github?
 Git is used to tracking changes in the source code. The distributed version control tool is used for source code management. It allows multiple developers to work together. It supports non-linear development through its thousands of parallel branches.

#program 1:
  ##finding a factorial of given number 
 The factorial of a number is the product of all the integers from 1 to that number.
Here the number whose factorial is to be found is stored in num, and we check if the number is negative, zero or positive using if...elif...else statement.

#program 2:
##To find whether the given arrays are equal or not

Two arrays are said to be equal if:

both of them contain the same set of elements, 
arrangements (or permutations) of elements might/might not be same.
by using assignment operator we can find whether the two lists are equal or not like list1==list2

#program 3:
finding prime number 

We check if num is exactly divisible by any number from 2 to num - 1. If we find a factor in that range, the number is not prime, so we set flag to True and break out of the loop.

Outside the loop, we check if flag is True or False.

If it is True, num is not a prime number.
If it is False, num is a prime number.

#program 4
#palindrome or not 
a number or string which reads same from either left to right or right to left
by using reverse function we can find given is palindrome or not

#program 5:
multiplication of two matrices 
Step1: input two matrix.
Step 2: nested for loops to iterate through each row and each column.
Step 3: take one resultant matrix which is initially contains all 0. Then we multiply each row elements of first matrix with each elements of second matrix, then add all multiplied value. That is the value of resultant matrix.


#program 6:
smallest number in given list 
program where we are sorting the entire list and then returning the first element as it’ll be the smallest element present in the list.

#program 7:
sum of n natural numbers 
the program we have used an if else statement in combination with a while loop to calculate the sum of natural numbers upto the given number 

#program 8:
program for slicing 
The format for list slicing is [start:stop:step].
start is the index of the list where slicing starts.
stop is the index of the list where slicing ends.
step allows you to select nth item within the range start to stop

#program 9
printing number in pattern 1,12,123,1234,12345
The first outer loop is used to handle a number of rows and the inner loop is used to handle a number of columns.
print(j, end=” “) is used to display numbers and the other print(“”) is used for the next line after each row.

#program 10:
gcd of two numbers 
Here, two integers stored in variables num1 and num2 are passed to the compute_gcd() function. The function computes the G.C.D these two numbers and returns it.

